The first step of the hacking lifecycle is to understand the networks,
devices, systems, and applications you're revealing.
This is known as reconnaissance.
Recall earlier lessons about
the NIST cybersecurity framework and the CIS critical security controls,
they both start the same way with an asset inventory.
You have to know what you have in order to know how it's best secured.
For this exercise, you need to take an inventory of your computers or devices,
whatever you have around you in your home or apartment.
You can use whatever device or computer you're using for this course for the exercise.
For example, if I was using my cell phone as an asset,
it's an iPhone 8 with iOS 13.4.1.
When you're completing the exercise,
answer these questions about the device you're using for the course,
such as, what's the hardware manufacturer, make and model?
What operating system does it use?
Include the addition version and operating system build if available.
Last, list two or three applications used on your device.
For each, include the version information if available.
You'll use all of this information in the next lesson on vulnerability management.